The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Sentence and Affidavit of John Church, by
Joseph A. Dowling


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Sentence and Affidavit of John Church


Author: Joseph A. Dowling



Release Date: October 5, 2018  [eBook #58027]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SENTENCE AND AFFIDAVIT OF JOHN
CHURCH***


Transcribed from the 1817 Hay and Turner edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org





                                   THE
                                 SENTENCE
                                   AND
                                AFFIDAVIT
                                    OF
                               JOHN CHURCH,
                          The Obelisk Preacher,


                       FOR AN ATTEMPT TO COMMIT AN

                             UNNATURAL CRIME

                      ON ADAM FOREMAN, AT VAUXHALL.

                              TOGETHER WITH
                    JUDGE BAYLEY’S IMPRESSIVE ADDRESS
                     TO THE PRISONER, AT FULL LENGTH.

                                * * * * *

               AT THE COURT OF KING’S BENCH, NOV. 24, 1817.

                                * * * * *

                           TAKEN IS SHORT-HAND
                         _By Joseph A. Dowling_,
                            OF CLEMENT’S INN.

                                * * * * *

                                 London:
                 PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY HAY AND TURNER,
                      11, NEWCASTLE STREET, STRAND.

                                  1817.

                           _PRICE THREEPENCE_.

                                * * * * *




SENTENCE ON JOHN CHURCH,
THE OBELISK PREACHER.


                                * * * * *

              _COURT OF KING’S BENCH_, _NOVEMBER_ 24, 1817.

THIS morning the celebrated JOHN CHURCH was brought up before the Court,
for the purpose of receiving its judgment, in pursuance of his conviction
at the last Croydon Assizes, for an attempt to commit an unnatural crime.

During the greater part of the morning the Court was occupied by passing
judgments on offenders against the Excise Laws; and it was not until one
o’clock, that the Court proceeded to pronounce sentence on the above
defendant.

Lord ELLENBOROUGH, who had tried the case, then read over all his notes
taken on the trial, and the defendant then handed in an affidavit to the
officer of the Court, for the purpose of inducing their Lordships to pass
a lenient sentence on him.

This affidavit, after reciting his conviction at the above-mentioned
Assizes, on the 10th of August last, complained of the title pages of
several accounts of his trial, which had been printed and published, and
which were strongly calculated to excite popular prejudice against him.
It stated that the defendant was a married man and had several children,
and that his wife had kept a school for the instruction of young females,
at Hammersmith, and while she so kept such school, she received the
following anonymous letter.

                                                                  “London.

    “Madam,

    “If you have any respect for the children who are under your care,
    you will remove from the house you are now in, that they may not be
    present at the punishment of your husband.

                                                 “Believe me your Friend.”

And that soon after this, a mob assembled before the house of the
defendant, with marrow-bones and cleavers, an effigy of the said
defendant, and a transparency; and, after having lighted a fire before
his door, the flames of which ascended as high as the windows of the
first floor, they burnt his effigy in that fire; they then broke the
defendant’s windows, and acted otherwise riotously, by which the
defendant was compelled to leave Hammersmith.  In consideration of these
facts, the affidavit went on to pray a lenient punishment from the Court.

Mr. BARLOW (_to the defendant_)—Do you wish to say any thing for yourself
in addition to this affidavit?

The DEFENDANT.—No, Sir.

Mr. MARRYATT now addressed their Lordships in the manner following:—

My Lords,—The less I call jour attention to the nature of the offence
imputed to the defendant, I think it will be the better.  I shall merely
direct your attention to the character and situation of the defendant;
for when a man in his situation of assumed piety, makes it the mask for
extraordinary delinquency, I submit to your Lordships that he becomes an
object for extraordinary punishment.

Your Lordships have found by the report, and also by the affidavit of the
defendant himself, that reports of a similar description against his
character had gone abroad.  I do not know what those reports precisely
were, and I do not mean anything further by alluding to them, than to
state what Mr. Patrick said to him on this occasion, namely, that he
should think himself at liberty to believe all that had been previously
said against him.

The defendant complains in his affidavit of the popular opprobrium
excited against him, by various publications of his trial, and other
matters relative to him.  It is really almost impossible to check the
public feeling in cases of this nature, and nothing is imputed in this
affidavit either to the prosecutor or any person connected with the
prosecution.  They are not responsible for the marrow-bones and cleavers,
for the effigy, or for any of the publications.

I should observe, that although the prosecutor did not go before the
Magistrate at the very period when this occurred, yet he did not make the
least concealment of the story in any way; for it appears, by the
testimony of Mr. Thomas, that it had reached his ears in two or three
days after it had happened, and that he went and called on Church on the
9th of October.  It appears that the matter became perfectly notorious;
because, in a very few days afterwards, this letter was written to him by
Mrs. Hunter, which notified to him that she would no longer be one of his
hearers.

There is only one circumstance in that letter to which I will advert.  He
states, that he is a child of peculiar Providence, corrected by the hand
of the Almighty, who will resent every attempt to correct his offences
from any other quarter.  I do not think that your Lordship will
intimidated from administering to him a due portion of punishment for his
offence, by any such intimation as that letter holds out.

Mr. Justice BAYLEY then addressed the defendant as follows:—The painful
part of my duty is, to pass on you the sentence of this Court, for the
enormous crime of which you stand convicted.  It is not only painful when
I think that you are so far advanced in years, and that you were in a
situation which it became your bounden duty to reflect on what would
become of you, as well as others, hereafter, but also when I reflect,
that when it was your duty to guide the course of others through life,
you took advantage of the confidence reposed in you, to put young people
materially off their guard, who would expect, from your sanctity of
manners, that nothing was to be feared.

Your attempt, in this instance, was upon a lad, very young, and if he had
been once drawn into the commission of that offence, which you attempted
to commit on him, though young, what must have been the consequence?
What course of life would he not be afterwards induced to follow by you?

The nature of that crime raises in all those who hear me the greatest
detestation and abhorrence—abhorrence indeed, when it is committed by a
married man, and one in that sacred situation in which you have been
(unfortunately for mankind) placed.

Your affidavit states, that, since the time of your conviction, there
have been publications reflecting on your character.  The Court does not
approve of any misconduct in any one, and, however the natural
indignation of the public may be called forth by the enormities which you
have committed, the Court would of course apportion such punishment to
any parties justly complained of, as the nature of the case, under all
the circumstances, might demand.  But that does not diminish your
GUILT—your GUILT stands in a very high and prominent point of view, and
it is necessary for the Court to pass on you a severe punishment.

If you have the feelings you ought to have, and if your life has not been
a life of hypocrisy throughout, you will try to obtain forgiveness for
this high offence, and reflect that it is fortunate you did not carry
your offence to its completion.

The sentence of the Court upon you is, that you be imprisoned in his
Majesty’s gaol at Newington for TWO YEARS; and at the expiration of that
term, that you find surety for your good behaviour, yourself in the sum
of 500_l._ and two sureties respectively in the sum of 100_l._ for the
term of five years, and that you be further imprisoned until such
securities are found.

During the passing of this sentence, as well as through the whole
proceeding, the defendant was completely unmoved, though his lordship
seemed deeply affected by the enormity of his crime.  He was conducted
out of Court in custody of the Marshal of the Marshalsea, for the
present, amidst the groans and hisses of indignation that burst forth
from the immense crowd.

                                * * * * *

The following is a perfect copy of Church’s letter to Mrs. Hunter,
adverted to by Mr. MARRYATT in his address to the Bench:

                                                           _Oct._ 6, 1816.

    “DEAR MRS. HUNTER—My heart is already too much affected.  Your letter
    only added affliction to my bonds; but I forbear.  I would hare
    called on you this morning, but I was too low in mind to speak to any
    friend but Jesus.  There I am truly comfortable.  Pardon me.  But I
    make no remarks on what you have been told.  I must bear it.  Though
    I am able to contradict three things, I would rather not.  Mr. and
    Mrs. Patrick have always dealt kindly to me.  I am only grieved that
    dear Mrs. P. whom I really love, that she should try to injure me in
    the estimation of those who are real friends to my dear children.
    The thought affects me.  Why hurt my poor family?  But I am too much
    depressed to enlarge.  I shall never forget their kindness.  God will
    reward them, as he has many who have dealt well to me.  But he will
    resent cruelty in those who have and are still trying to degrade me.
    Mrs. P. will live to see it.  Dear Mrs. Hunter, I am grieved at
    heart.  I cannot relieve your mind.  I am truly sorry to lose you as
    an hearer because your soul has been blessed, and you know both the
    plague of the heart and the value of Jesus.  May he be increasingly
    precious to you!—in his person, love and grace.  Farewell, my dear
    kind friend.  The Lord Jesus will reward you for your love to me and
    kindness to mine.  God is not unrighteous to forget your work of
    faith and labour of love.  With many tears I write this.  May we meet
    in glory, when no enemy shall distress my mind, nor sin, nor death
    shall part us more.  I need not remind my dear friend that I am a
    child of peculiar Providence: and that Heart of Eternal Love, and
    that Arm of Invincible Power, has protected me—has called me to
    himself—and for every act of straying, will correct me with his own
    hand; but will resent every other hand sooner or later.

    “This you will live to see.  Adieu, dear friend: accept the starting
    tear, and the best wishes of an heart sincere.

                                                            “Your’s truly,
                                               “Till we shall meet above.”

                                * * * * *




A VERBATIM EDITION,


      (_Containing Seventy Pages of closely-printed Letter Press_,)

                           PRICE ONE SHILLING,
                                    OF
                 THE TRIAL AND CONVICTION OF JOHN CHURCH,

           THE PREACHER OF THE SURREY TABERNACLE, BOROUGH ROAD,

At the Surrey Assizes, at Croydon, on Saturday, the 16th of August, 1817,
for an Assault, with Intent to Commit an UNNATURAL CRIME.  Taken in Short
Hand, by A BARRISTER.

                                * * * * *

                 Also, Just Published, PRICE FOUR-PENCE,
                     HAY AND TURNER’S GENUINE EDITION
                                    OF
                    THE INFAMOUS LIFE OF JOHN CHURCH,

                    THE ST. GEORGE’S FIELDS PREACHER,

             _From his Infancy to his Trial and Conviction_.

With HIS CONFESSION, sent in a Letter to the Rev. Mr. L—, two days after
his Attack on Adam Foreman, at Vauxhall; with remarks on it by the same
Gentleman.  To which are added, HIS LOVE EPISTLES TO E— B—; with various
other Letters, particularly one to Cook, of Vere-street Notoriety.

                                * * * * *

               Likewise, Just Published, PRICE FOUR-PENCE,
                            THE ROD IN PICKLE;
               OR, AN ANSWER TO THE APPEAL OF JOHN CHURCH,

                          THE OBELISK PREACHER:

Containing an Authentic Narrative of the cause of his leaving Banbury, in
Oxfordshire: together with the charges exhibited against him—the Meeting
of his Friends in consequence of those Charges—and the result of that
Meeting.  To which are added, HIS LETTERS, written to the Managers of the
Banbury Meeting-House, begging them not to let the Cause of his Dismissal
be known in London.  By the Rev. T. LATHAM, Minister of the Gospel.

***  None are GENUINE, but those Published by HAY and TURNER, they having
the Original Letters in their Possession.

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

           Hay and Turner, Printers, Newcastle-street, Strand.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SENTENCE AND AFFIDAVIT OF JOHN
CHURCH***


******* This file should be named 58027-0.txt or 58027-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/8/0/2/58027


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

